AI roundup 8-June-2025
================
Get tired of all the "This changes everything!"
"Wow look at this!" videos.
"AI"  Search on YouTube posts almost every day and
the info is excellent. It's now just about the only one I'd
bother to watch.

https://youtu.be/abbQkYmH9FA?si=0_Q529ZUJ10_IjQ9

Things continue apace and each day progress
 seems to be getting faster.The AI zoo is full
of models. The usual suspects, Microsoft,
Google, Anthropic, plus OpenAI.
All have some new versions, and then as usual
the Chinese make some faster break thru running
on slower hardware.

So you pay to use the closed models,
but openAI is open, and Cloudflare
give you a lot of free tokens.

Surprised how now people are downloading
modules and running them locally. I downloaded
ComfyUI , which is a workbench. Huge
download, includes models,
not tried it out yet but will be slow.
Like how it seems you can just use templates for
workflows. It's a an install based on python,
not a web app.

Toying with the idea of upgrading my
PC since it cannot be interfaced with
a GPU. Taking a look at what's on the
market. Use to upgrade every 18 months
or so. Never for the sake of it, but I 
would upgrade when my hw would
not run the software I was targeting.

I would budget maybe 3k, nowadays
I think that's a lot of money
but maybe not. Will also look into
paid cloud solutions and fully
explore cloudflare. 

Copilot says there is no webapp
workbench as it knows about
so as an exercise i'll keep on
developing my own.

Noticed Altman on youtube cooking up
the next big thing which will be a device.
No details just him and Johnny Ive
in some poncy, SF Coffee Bar talking waffle
and name dropping. Said it will replace the
smartphone, the later said it wouldn't
but would compliment current devices.

No details, no mock up, so maybe it's 
just another version of Amazon Alexa,
or Hey Google for the home. Wait and
see.

Experience with github copilot continues.
Seems my experience more or
less chimes with general wisdom
on AI coding.

Also, been playing with prompt engineering—sometimes a
tiny tweak in wording makes a big difference in output quality. 
Still feels a bit like an art. My workbench will
include a prompt generator. I think the skill is
in knowing how to prompt and an idea of how AI
works under the hood.

Good Points.
Make snippets to order where I
cant remember the syntax and I'd
normally look it up on W3Schools,
or StackOverflow. It will write the
code and optionally edit it into
the codebase. A great time server.

Can correct my misconceptions
e.g. My code would not work because 
I was running it in the file system.
I was makes x-origin calls threw an 
error, and I remember it telling me
once that I needed a server. Good
at getting little gotchas that would
 need fiddle and trial and error.

Bad at structure. Tends to magic up
 HTML in js, and favours inline anonymous
functions which I don't like. So I have
to ask it to refactor or do it myself.
DIY helps me understand the code
and get comfy with it. Can then see reuse 
and simplification opportunities.

You need to keep a strong hold on
your architecture or you end up
with spaghetti with tons of repeated 
code.

All in all I'm probably twice as 
productive at least. A great help,
well worth it.

I'm starting to think there will be a 
place for developers, people who are 
comfortable with AI and can axt as the
 middle man to get results. Knowing 
 the tools and how to apply them,
 keeping up to date with latest
 trends. And a broad knowledge of
 IT in general will be in demand.


